Added eventing tutorials to docs (#14706)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/03-tutorials/00-eventing/evnt-03-type-cleanup.md

---
title: Event name cleanup in Subscriptions
---

To conform to Cloud Event specifications, sometimes Eventing must modify the event names to filter out non-alphanumeric characters. This tutorial presents one example of event name cleanup.
You learn how Eventing behaves when you create a [Subscription](../../05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/evnt-01-subscription.md) having alphanumeric characters in the event names. Read more about [Event name format and cleanup](../../05-technical-reference/evnt-01-event-names.md).

## Prerequisites

> Follow the [prerequisites steps](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#prerequisites) mentioned in the getting-started guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [prerequisites steps](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#prerequisites) in the Getting Started guide.
```

---
title: Event name cleanup in Subscriptions
---

> To conform to Cloud Event specifications, sometimes Eventing must modify the event names to filter out non-alphanumeric character. In this tutorial, we will show one such example of event name cleanup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To conform to Cloud Event specifications, sometimes Eventing must modify the event names to filter out non-alphanumeric characters. This tutorial presents one example of event name cleanup.
```
again, just shorter :)

> We will create a [Subscription](../../05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/evnt-01-subscription.md) having alphanumeric characters in the event names and see how Eventing behaves. You can read more about Event name format and cleanup [here](../../05-technical-reference/evnt-01-event-names.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You learn how Eventing behaves when you create a [Subscription](../../05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/evnt-01-subscription.md) having alphanumeric characters in the event names. Read more about [Event name format and cleanup](../../05-technical-reference/evnt-01-event-names.md).
```

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="kubectl">
  kubectl
  </summary>

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
  apiVersion: serverless.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
  kind: Function
  metadata:
    labels:
      serverless.kyma-project.io/build-resources-preset: local-dev
      serverless.kyma-project.io/function-resources-preset: S
      serverless.kyma-project.io/replicas-preset: S
    name: lastorder
    namespace: default
  spec:
    deps: '{ "dependencies": {}}'
    maxReplicas: 1
    minReplicas: 1
    source: |
      module.exports = {
        main: async function (event, context) {
          console.log("Received event: ", event.data, ", Event Type: ", event.extensions.request.headers['ce-type']);
          return; 
        } 
      }
EOF
```

If the resources were created successfully, the command returns this message:

```bash
function.serverless.kyma-project.io/lastorder created
```

To check the Function status, run:

```bash
kubectl get functions -n default lastorder
```

> **NOTE:** You might need to wait a few seconds for the Function to be ready.

  </details>
</div>

## Create a Subscription with Event type consisting of alphanumeric characters

> Next, we will create a [Subscription](../../05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/evnt-01-subscription.md) custom resource. We're going to subscribe for events of the type: `order.payment-success.v1`. Note that `order.payment-success.v1` contains a non-alphanumeric character (i.e. hyphen `-`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create a [Subscription](../../05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/evnt-01-subscription.md) custom resource and subscribe for events of the type: `order.payment-success.v1`. Note that `order.payment-success.v1` contains a non-alphanumeric character, the hyphen `-`.
```

4. Click **Create**.
5. Wait a few seconds for the Subscription to have status `READY`.

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="kubectl">
  kubectl
  </summary>

Run:
```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: eventing.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
   kind: Subscription
   metadata:
     name: lastorder-payment-sub
     namespace: default
   spec:
     sink: 'http://lastorder.default.svc.cluster.local'
     filter:
       filters:
         - eventSource:
             property: source
             type: exact
             value: ''
           eventType:
             property: type
             type: exact
             value: sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.payment-success.v1
EOF
```

To check that the Subscription was created and is ready, run:
```bash
kubectl get subscriptions lastorder-payment-sub -o=jsonpath="{.status.ready}"
```

The operation was successful if the returned status says `true`.
  </details>
</div>

## Check the Subscription cleaned Event type

To check the Subscription cleaned Event type, run:
```bash
kubectl get subscriptions lastorder-payment-sub -o=jsonpath="{.status.cleanEventTypes}"
```

> Now, note that the returned cleaned event type `["sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.paymentsuccess.v1"]` does not contain the hyphen (i.e. `-`) in `payment-success` part, because Eventing services cleans out the non-alphanumeric characters from the Event name and uses the cleaned Event name in underlying Eventing-Backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the returned cleaned event type `["sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.paymentsuccess.v1"]` does not contain the hyphen `-` in the `payment-success` part. That's because Eventing services cleans out the non-alphanumeric characters from the Event name and uses the cleaned Event name in the underlying Eventing backend.
```
Would it be possible to write "eventing backend" or why does this have to be capitalized with hyphen, is it a proper name?

Also, I'm confused about the numerus and spelling of "Eventing Services" in all these tutorials. It looks like a plural, but the verb afterwards often is singular. Also, this is the first time it's written with lower case "services". Eventing as Kyma component surely is a proper name, so capitalized - but how about "Eventing services"? Is this combination also a proper name and we must capitalize the "Services" too? Or are that normal "services" in lower case?

## Trigger the workload with an event

> We created the `lastorder` Function, and subscribed to the `order.payment-success.v1` events by creating a Subscription CR. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You created the `lastorder` Function, and subscribed to the `order.payment-success.v1` events by creating a Subscription CR. 
```

> Now we will see that we can still publish events with the original Event name (i.e. `order.payment-success.v1`) even though it contains the non-alphanumeric character, and it will trigger the Function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you see that you can still publish events with the original Event name (i.e. `order.payment-success.v1`) even though it contains the non-alphanumeric character, and it will trigger the Function.
```

> In this example, we'll port-forward the [Event Publisher Proxy](../../05-technical-reference/00-architecture/evnt-01-architecture.md) to localhost.

Reviewer: The same information is right there again in the first step. Just add the link there and drop this entire sentence.

```suggestion
```

> 1. Port-forward the Event Publisher Proxy Service to localhost. We will use port `3000`. Run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Port-forward the [Event Publisher Proxy](../../05-technical-reference/00-architecture/evnt-01-architecture.md) Service to localhost, using port `3000`. Run:
```

   ```bash
   kubectl -n kyma-system port-forward service/eventing-event-publisher-proxy 3000:80
   ```

> 2. Now publish an event to trigger your function. In another Terminal window run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Publish an event to trigger your Function. In another terminal window, run:
```

           -H "ce-specversion: 1.0" \
           -H "ce-type: sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.payment-success.v1" \
           -H "ce-source: myapp" \
           -H "ce-eventtypeversion: v1" \
           -H "ce-id: e4bcc616-c3a9-4840-9321-763aa23851fc" \
           -H "content-type: application/json" \
           -d "{\"orderCode\":\"3211213\", \"orderAmount\":\"1250\"}" \
           http://localhost:3000/publish
      ```
     </details>
   </div>

## Verify the event delivery

To verify that the event was properly delivered, check the logs of the Function:

<div tabs name="Verify the event delivery" group="trigger-workload">
  <details open>
  <summary label="Kyma Dashboard">
  Kyma Dashboard
  </summary>

1. In Kyma Dashboard, return to the view of your `lastorder` Function.
2. Go to **Code** and find the **Replicas of the Function** section.
3. Click on **View Logs**.

</details>
  <details>
  <summary label="kubectl">
  kubectl
  </summary>
Run: 

```bash
kubectl logs -f -n default \
  $(kubectl get pod \
    --field-selector=status.phase==Running \
    -l serverless.kyma-project.io/function-name=lastorder \
    -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
```

  </details>
</div>

> You will see the received event in the logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You see the received event in the logs:
```

```
Received event:  { orderCode: '3211213', orderAmount: '1250' } , Event Type:  sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.paymentsuccess.v1
```
Note that the `Event Type` of the received event is not the same as defined in the Subscription.

## Conclusion

> We saw that Eventing services modifies the event names to filter out non-alphanumeric character to conform to Cloud Event specifications. But this modification is abstract to the user because the user can still publish and subscribe to the original Event names. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You see that Eventing services modify the event names to filter out non-alphanumeric character to conform to Cloud Event specifications. 

> **CAUTION:** This cleanup modification is abstract; you can still publish and subscribe to the original Event names. However, in some cases, it can lead to a naming collision as explained in [Event names](../../05-technical-reference/evnt-01-event-names.md).
```
We've been addressing the reader/user in all the tutorial so far, and now suddenly we talk about the users in third person as if explaining the architecture to a dev colleague? This feels weird. I tried rephrasing it as informative box, combined with the following sentence.

> Only catch is that in some cases, it can lead to a naming collision as explained in [Event names](../../05-technical-reference/evnt-01-event-names.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In this example, we'll port-forward the Kyma Eventing Service to localhost.

1. Port-forward the Kyma Eventing Service to localhost. We will use port `3000`. Run:
   ```bash
   kubectl -n kyma-system port-forward service/eventing-event-publisher-proxy 3000:80
   ```
2. Now publish an event to trigger your function. In another Terminal window run:

   <div tabs name="Publish an event" group="trigger-workload">
     <details open>
     <summary label="CloudEvents Conformance Tool">
     CloudEvents Conformance Tool
     </summary>
   
      ```bash
      cloudevents send http://localhost:3000/publish \
         --type sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.payment-success.v1 \
         --id e4bcc616-c3a9-4840-9321-763aa23851fc \
         --source myapp \
         --datacontenttype application/json \
         --data "{\"orderCode\":\"3211213\", \"orderAmount\":\"1250\"}" \
         --yaml
      ```
   
     </details>
     <details>
     <summary label="curl">
     curl
     </summary>
   
      ```bash
      curl -v -X POST \
           -H "ce-specversion: 1.0" \
           -H "ce-type: sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.payment-success.v1" \

>            -H "ce-source: /default/io.kyma-project/custom" \

Reviewer 2: same as above: source attribute between curl and conformance tool are different.

Author: updated

title: Event name cleanup in Subscriptions
---

To conform to Cloud Event specifications, sometimes Eventing must modify the event names to filter out non-alphanumeric characters. This tutorial presents one example of event name cleanup.
You learn how Eventing behaves when you create a [Subscription](../../05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/evnt-01-subscription.md) having alphanumeric characters in the event names. Read more about [Event name format and cleanup](../../05-technical-reference/evnt-01-event-names.md).

## Prerequisites

Follow the [prerequisites steps](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#prerequisites) mentioned in the getting-started guide.

## Create a Function

> 

Reviewer: The difference between the following instructions and the ones in `../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#create-a-function` is only the sample code, right?

If yes, then you could replace this whole section with something like:

```suggestion
2. Create a Function by following the [instructions](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#create-a-function) in the Getting Started guide.

> **NOTE:** For this example, instead of the default code sample, replace the Function source with the following code:
```

Author: updated

kubectl get subscriptions lastorder-payment-sub -o=jsonpath="{.status.cleanEventTypes}"
```

> Note that the returned cleaned event type `["sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.paymentsuccess.v1"]` does not contain the hyphen `-` in the `payment-success` part. That's because Kyma Eventing cleans out the non-alphanumeric characters from the Event name and uses the cleaned Event name in the underlying Eventing backend.

Reviewer: I think we don't need "cleaned" here, the following sentence explains it. 

```suggestion
Note that the returned event type `["sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.paymentsuccess.v1"]` does not contain the hyphen `-` in the `payment-success` part. That's because Kyma Eventing cleans out the non-alphanumeric characters from the Event name and uses the cleaned Event name in the underlying Eventing backend.
```

## Verify the event delivery

> To verify that the event was properly delivered, check the logs of the Function by following the [instructions](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#verify-the-event-delivery) given in the getting-started guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that the event was properly delivered, check the logs of the Function (see [Verify the event delivery](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#verify-the-event-delivery)).
```

You see the received event in the logs:
```
Received event:  { orderCode: '3211213', orderAmount: '1250' } , Event Type:  sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.paymentsuccess.v1
```
Note that the `Event Type` of the received event is not the same as defined in the Subscription.

## Conclusion

> You see that Kyma Eventing modify the event names to filter out non-alphanumeric character to conform to Cloud Event specifications. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You see that Kyma Eventing modifies the event names to filter out non-alphanumeric character to conform to Cloud Event specifications. 
```
